Hi, Mystery Recapped here. Today, I’m going
to explain a psychological thriller war
film called “Mine”. Spoilers
ahead! Watch out and take care!
The movie begins with a hardened US marine Mike
saying goodbye to a young woman at the airport and
traveling in a helicopter to his next mission.
In the next scene, Mike and his spotter Tommy are
set up on a cliff overlooking a desert, waiting
for their target to arrive. Tommy is a chatter
box by nature, while Mike has a more serious
disposition. They notice multiple people on foot
on one side and multiple armed vehicles on the
other approaching. Mike’s target is a 65 year old
terrorist Sayid Assiff. As Tommy and the voice
over the radio try to get Mike to make the hit,
he realizes that the group has gathered for a
wedding, and the target might be the groom's
father. Matter further complicates when the groom
and bride block the target. Mike is ordered to
take out the groom to get to the target but he
can’t bring himself to take an innocent life.
Mike lies to his command centre that he
lost the target. The duo are then spotted
by armed men protecting the ceremony. Gun
fire follows. The target immediately flees,
while Mike and Tommy are forced to retreat as
armed men start chasing them. Who would become a
terrorist just to guard a wedding couple in the
middle of nowhere. While running, they damage
their GPS and hide behind a rock formation.
The armed men start walking towards the
rock when Mike quickly creates a clever
distraction to send them the other direction.
After evading the armed men, the duo request an
evacuation but are told they need to cross the
desert in front of them to get to a village five
hours away, where they can be picked up. They set
out on foot, weathering sandstorms and scorching
heat. Tommy entertains( perhaps annoys) Mike with
the stories of his son back home. Seeing Mike
silent and seemingly troubled by something,
Tommy forces Mike to open up. Mike reveals that
he is having a hard time proposing marriage to
his girlfriend Jenny. Tommy makes fun of him
for being so scared, but also gives him advice
that initially marriages can be difficult
but over time you get the hang of it.
While passing through the desert, wind brings
a warning sign flying right beneath their feet.
Mike takes the sign seriously, recalling that 33
million landmines have been buried in the desert
in the last 40 years. Tommy assures him it's just
a Berber trick to keep enemies away. Mike is still
proceeding cautiously, his mind preoccupied with
the warning sign. Tommy walks backwards carefreely
a few yards in front of Mike, taking light
hearted digs at Mike for being an overthinker.
Suddenly a click sound is heard and an explosion
follows. Tommy had stepped on a landmine.
As he goes temporarily deaf, Mike takes a step
towards Tommy, and hears another "click" where
his foot just landed. He freezes in shock. The
sand from the blast starts to clear out.
Tommy has survived the explosion, but his
legs below the knees have been amputated.
Tommy screams and quivers in pain. Mike, unable
to move himself, struggles to calm Tommy down.
When nothing seems to work, Mike brings up
Tommy's son, which gives him some motivation
and he's able to inject himself with the morphine
marines carry in their front pocket. Tommy then
tries to reach his radio, but the pain again takes
over him. Seeing his partner in pain, Mike offers
to take his foot off the landmine in order to
help Tommy. Mike speculates that perhaps the
landmine he stepped on is old and defunct. Tommy
warns him not to and inorder to dissuade Mike,
he pulls out his gun and aims it on his head. He
tells Mike that he must survive no matter what
and shoots himself.
Mike helplessly screams in grief.
He is stuck in the desert all by himself unable
to move. He soons gets tired of standing and
gets on his one knee. Mike realises he must
somehow fetch the radio lying next to Tommy
several yards away. He ties his shoe lace to
an axe to pull the radio bag towards himself.
However, he learns that the radio's battery
is dead and the spare is on Tommy's body.
Mike is dejected, but thinks of another plan. He
makes a makeshift arrangement to charge the radio
using solar power. Mike is then able to contact
his superiors. He requests immediate evacuation
but he is told that rescue choppers can’t fly
to his location because of frequent sandstorms.
If it all goes well, a convoy
will rescue him in about 52 hours.
Mike gets frustrated by the response. The
major then suggests Mike to try digging a
ditch and jumping in it, which would "only"
result in a non-life-threatening limb loss.
Mike decides to tough it out and wait for
rescue, setting a countdown on his watch.
Then, another massive sandstorm hits full force.
He manages to wait it out without moving from his
spot. Once it's over, the first thing he realizes
is that the storm has brought Tommy's body (and
therefore the spare battery) right next to him,
yet the radio has drifted too far from his reach.
Hours pass by. Mike runs out of water and gets
increasingly desperate and at times wonders
about shooting himself dead. He then notices a
Berber coming towards him, walking in a zig zag.
Mike tries to warn him about the landmine
but the Berber imitates his actions,
seemingly making fun of him. Mike tries to explain
his ordeal to the Berber man, but he insists that
Mike must take the next step. He then takes Mike’s
water flask and disappears into the desert.
Completely dehydrated and desperate, Mike proceeds
to drink his piss when he notices a little Berber
girl coming his way bringing back his water flask.
She hands it to Mike, and to his relief, it's full
with water. Mike quenches his thirst. Although the
girl never speaks, using her toy soldiers, she too
seemingly tells Mike that he has to step off the
mine and move on. Mike tells her that he can’t
move and asks the little girl to fetch him his
radio but the girl doesn’t understand. Desperate,
Mike gets too loud, scaring the girl away.
Soon, the night falls and the temperature starts
to drop. Mike lights a fire to keep himself
warm. He starts hearing noises of wild animals.
He takes out his phone and looks at the pictures
of his girlfriend to keep himself distracted. He
finds a video from his girlfriend. In the video,
Jenny tells Mike that she is waiting for him.
Mike must win the war and come back to her as soon
as possible. Mike begins to get emotional. He is
afraid that he might never see his girlfriend
again. Tired of everything happening to him,
he starts to fall asleep, but he snaps out
of it to find that the fire has died out.
He finds himself surrounded by wild
animals. He tries to scare them with his gun
but fails. Guess he should have watched a bit of
‘Man vs Wild’. The animals drag Tommy’s body away.
One animal starts to proceed toward him but using
his torch light, Mike shoots the animal with his
gun. The animal lands on a landmine, causing an
explosion and scaring the other animals away.
The morning arrives and the same berber man again
drops by. He tells Mike that he is very lucky that
he has survived thus far even after stepping on
a landmine and spending a night in the desert
with wild animals. He once again suggests Mike
to step forward but Mike doesn't comply.
Mike tells him that he probably knows the location
of the mines as he always walks in a pattern.
The Berber responds that he doesn’t know where
the landmines are and he only walks in a zig zag
because it is safer than walking straight.
Mike again asks him to fetch his radio. The
Berber man finally agrees and brings the radio
back to Mike, and then heads on his way.
Mike checks his watch, and there’s still 24
hours left for the help to arrive. He slowly
starts hallucinating. Mike sees Tommy wake up from
his death. The imaginary Tommy motivates Mike, and
tells him that he will get out of this alive.
The sun sets again, and Mike starts to think about
all the mistakes he has made in his life. He
starts regretting leaving his girlfriend Jenny
alone and coming to the mission. He again
finds himself surrounded by animals. This
time even mine explosions do not deter them. Mike
aimlessly starts shooting at them in the dark but
the animals still attack him. He gets lost in his
thoughts as he fights off the wild animals.
As the sun rises, Mike again descends back to
reality. All the wild animals that attacked him
lay dead around him. Despite being outnumbered,
he managed to kill all the animals.
Mike has been in that desert all alone by
himself, with his foot over the mine, without
moving for the last 45 hours. He then receives
a communication from his senior who informs
him that the rescue team is running late. The
senior asks him if he can hold on for 17 hours.
Already way past his breaking point, Mike
replies that he cannot go any further.
The major tells him that there is someone who
wants to talk to him. Mike then hears the voice
of Jenny. Mike frantically starts apologizing to
her for leaving her, for messing everything up
and destroying everything he touches. He then
starts hallucinating and sees Jenny sitting
on a couch in front of him in the desert. He
tries to reach her but starts losing strength.
He begins to collapse, when Berber catches him
seemingly arriving out of nowhere. The man starts
nursing Mike’s wounds and tells him about the time
when he too once stepped on a mine, which took off
his leg. He tells Mike that losing his leg felt
like he had lost everything in his life. However,
the pain of losing his leg was all washed away
when he met his wife and had a daughter. He says
that whatever happens in our life, we must keep
moving on. Mike tells the man that he indeed is
lucky as his daughter who brought him water is
really beautiful and has her father’s smile.
The man tells Mike that he no longer has
a daughter; she died in a mine explosion
during one of their father-daughter excursions
to dig out mines and replace them with tin cans.
Mike listens, dumbfounded. The Berber tells
him he's happy his daughter came to meet Mike,
but he really needs to move on now. Then, he
leaves. Mike sees his daughter again. But,
she quickly fades away with the wind.
Mike starts to hallucinate again. He sees
his abusive father who used to beat his
mother while he watched helplessly. He
sees his terminally ill mother. He also sees the
lovely times he spent with his girlfriend.
At that moment, he hears on the radio that the
rescue team is passing and they need him to make
his exact location known. He picks up his flare
but before he gets to use it, the terrorists from
before start shooting at him from over the hill.
The shooting triggers a mine explosion nearby,
which sends the flare flying out of Mike’s hand
and reach. He tries to fire back but he is too
weak. But he remembers his girlfriend and uses it
as a motivation. Mike then uses his gun to shoot
at ground and triggers mine explosions around
him which creates a sand smoke, shielding him
from the enemy. He then quickly grabs his sniper
rifle and eliminates the terrorists. With the
rescue team passing by, the flare is still out of
reach. Mike remembers the Berber man’s words that
“You have to keep moving on”. He takes a leap of
faith and takes a step forward. Nothing happens;
there's no explosion. He finds that the
mine he'd stepped on was in fact a tin can,
probably placed there by the Berber's daughter
when she was alive. The villager’s words come to
pass. This entire time, the villager told him that
he could move forward with his life and go back
to his girlfriend. He reminded him that he CAN do
it and the only thing stopping him was fear .
Mike is relieved to be alive despite the
non-lethal gunshot wounds he sustained in
the standoff. He starts bursting into tears.
Maybe he was relieved knowing the fact that
he will be saved or maybe he was angry
for not realizing the correctness of the
situation.Whatever be the reason, one thing was
for sure, this incident would change his life
completely and he had learnt a valuable lesson.
He then shoots the flare and
collapses on the ground.
The rescue team finds him and
he returns home. Back home at the airport, Jenny
is waiting for him with happy tears in her eyes.
Even before hugging her, he drops to one
knee like he has done throughout different
stages of his life. He then proposes to
her, promising to not leave her alone
again.
they can move forward; one step at a time.
Subscribe for more videos like this,
turn on notifications, and leave a like to
help the channel out. Thank you for watching.